.\" nvflux(1)
.TH NVFLUX 1 "February 2026" "nvflux 1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nvflux \- NVIDIA GPU clock profile manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nvflux
.RI [ COMMAND ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nvflux
is a small setuid-root helper that lets unprivileged users manage NVIDIA GPU
clock profiles via
.BR nvidia-smi (1).
Clock tiers are queried live from the driver; no values are hard-coded.
All profiles work on Wayland and on driver versions \(<=\&580 where the
nvidia-settings PowerMizer dropdown is unavailable.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B ultra
Lock both the GPU core clock and memory clock to their maximum supported tiers.
Equivalent to PowerMizer \(lqPrefer Maximum Performance\(rq.
Use this for gaming or compute workloads where maximum throughput is needed.
.TP
.B performance
Lock memory clock to the highest supported tier.
The GPU core clock lock is reset to driver-managed (Adaptive).
.TP
.B balanced
Lock memory clock to the mid-range supported tier.
The GPU core clock lock is reset to driver-managed (Adaptive).
.TP
.B powersave
Lock memory clock to the lowest supported tier.
The GPU core clock lock is reset to driver-managed (Adaptive).
.TP
.B auto
Unlock all clocks; the driver manages both memory and GPU core clocks automatically.
Equivalent to PowerMizer \(lqAdaptive\(rq.
.TP
.B status
Print the last saved profile for the calling user.
Does not require root or a running NVIDIA driver.
.TP
.B clock
Print the current GPU memory clock in MHz.
.TP
.B \-\-restore
Re-apply the last saved profile.
Validates the saved name before executing; gives a clear error on corruption.
.TP
.B \-v\fR,\fB \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-h\fR,\fB \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/nvflux/state
Per-user saved profile name (plain text, mode 0600, owned by real UID).
The directory tree is created automatically on first write.
.SH EXAMPLES
Lock to performance profile:
.RS
.B nvflux performance
.RE
.PP
Check current status (no root needed):
.RS
.B nvflux status
.RE
.PP
Restore last saved profile on login (i3/Sway):
.RS
.B exec \-\-no\-startup\-id nvflux \-\-restore
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Operational error (message printed to stderr).
.TP
.B 2
nvidia-smi not found.
.TP
.B 3
Not running as root.
.TP
.B 4
No NVIDIA GPU detected or driver not loaded.
.TP
.B 5
Unknown command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nvidia-smi (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Habibi Med Wassim
.SH LICENSE
MIT \(em see the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
